Document new valve integration (#1977)
home-assistant/developers.home-assistant: docs/core/entity/valve.md

---
title: Valve Entity
sidebar_label: Valve
---

> A valve entity controls an valve devices such as a the water or gas valves in your home. Derive a platform entity from [`homeassistant.components.valve.ValveEntity`](https://github.com/home-assistant/core/blob/dev/homeassistant/components/valve/__init__.py).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A valve entity controls valve devices such as a the water or gas valves in your home. Derive a platform entity from [`homeassistant.components.valve.ValveEntity`](https://github.com/home-assistant/core/blob/dev/homeassistant/components/valve/__init__.py).
```

## Properties

:::tip
Properties should always only return information from memory and not do I/O (like network requests). Implement `update()` or `async_update()` to fetch data.
:::

| Name | Type | Default | Description
| ----------------------- | ---- | ------- | -----------

> | current_valve_position | <code>int &#124; None</code> | `None` | The current position of valve where 0 means closed and 100 is fully open.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| current_valve_position | <code>int &#124; None</code> | `None` | The current position of the valve where 0 means closed and 100 is fully open.
```

> | is_closed | <code>bool &#124; None</code> | **Required** | If the valve is closed or not. Used to determine `state`.

Reviewer: Let's add a sentence that `current_valve_position` will be used to calculate `is_closed` if `current_value_position` is set and `is_closed` is not set.

and are combined using the bitwise or (`|`) operator.

| Value               | Description                                                                      |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `OPEN`              | The valve supports being opened.                                                 |
| `CLOSE`             | The valve supports being closed.                                                 |
| `SET_POSITION`      | The valve supports moving to a specific position between opened and closed.      |
| `STOP`              | The valve supports stopping the current action (open, close, set position)       |

## Methods

### Open valve

Only implement this method if the flag `SUPPORT_OPEN` is set.

```python
class MyValve(ValveEntity):
    # Implement one of these methods.

    def open_valve(self):
        """Open the valve."""

    async def async_open_valve(self):
        """Open the valve."""
```

### Close valve

Only implement this method if the flag `SUPPORT_CLOSE` is set.

```python
class MyValve(ValveEntity):
    # Implement one of these methods.

>     def close_valve(self):

Reviewer: It's nice to add type annotations.

        """Close valve."""

    async def async_close_valve(self):
        """Close valve."""
```

### Set valve position

Only implement this method if the flag `SUPPORT_SET_POSITION` is set.

```python
class MyValve(ValveEntity):
    # Implement one of these methods.

>     def set_valve_position(self):
>         """Move the valve to a specific position."""
> 
>     async def async_set_valve_position(self):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    def set_valve_position(self, position: int) -> None:
        """Move the valve to a specific position."""

    async def async_set_valve_position(self, position: int) -> None:
```

---
title: Valve Entity
sidebar_label: Valve
---

> A valve entity controls valve devices such as a the water or gas valves in your home. Derive a platform entity from [`homeassistant.components.valve.ValveEntity`](https://github.com/home-assistant/core/blob/dev/homeassistant/components/valve/__init__.py).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A valve entity controls valve devices such as the water or gas valves in your home. Derive a platform entity from [`homeassistant.components.valve.ValveEntity`](https://github.com/home-assistant/core/blob/dev/homeassistant/components/valve/__init__.py).
```

## Properties

:::tip
Properties should always only return information from memory and not do I/O (like network requests). Implement `update()` or `async_update()` to fetch data.
:::

| Name | Type | Default | Description
| ----------------------- | ---- | ------- | -----------

> | current_valve_position | <code>int &#124; None</code> | `None` | The current position of the valve where 0 means closed and 100 is fully open. This attribute is required on valves with `reports_position = True`. The value for `is_closed` will be calculated from this attribute. A valve will be closed if its position is 0.

Reviewer: We should add a row in the table for `reports_position`.

> | current_valve_position | <code>int &#124; None</code> | `None` | The current position of the valve where 0 means closed and 100 is fully open. This attribute is required on valves with `reports_position = True`. The value for `is_closed` will be calculated from this attribute. A valve will be closed if its position is 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| current_valve_position | <code>int &#124; None</code> | `None` | The current position of the valve where 0 means closed and 100 is fully open. This attribute is required on valves with `reports_position = True`, where it's used to determine state.
```

> | is_closed | <code>bool &#124; None</code> | `None` | If the valve is closed or not. Used to determine `state`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| is_closed | <code>bool &#124; None</code> | `None` | If the valve is closed or not. Used to determine `state` for valves that don't report position.
```

### States

| Constant | Description
|----------|------------------------|
| `STATE_OPENING` | The valve is in the process of opening to reach a set position.
| `STATE_OPEN` | The valve has reached the open position.
| `STATE_CLOSING` | The valve is in the process of closing to reach a set position.
| `STATE_CLOSED` | The valve has reach the closed position.

## Supported Features

Supported features are defined by using values in the `ValveEntityFeature` enum
and are combined using the bitwise or (`|`) operator.

| Value               | Description                                                                      |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `OPEN`              | The valve supports being opened.                                                 |
| `CLOSE`             | The valve supports being closed.                                                 |
| `SET_POSITION`      | The valve supports moving to a specific position between opened and closed.      |
| `STOP`              | The valve supports stopping the current action (open, close, set position)       |

## Methods

### Open valve

> Only implement this method if the flag `SUPPORT_OPEN` is set. For valves that
> report position, this method can be left unimplemented and only `set_valve_position` is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only implement this method if the flag `SUPPORT_OPEN` is set. For valves that
can set position, this method should be left unimplemented and only `set_valve_position` is required.
```

```python
class MyValve(ValveEntity):
    # Implement one of these methods.

    def open_valve(self) -> None:
        """Open the valve."""

    async def async_open_valve(self) -> None:
        """Open the valve."""
```

### Close valve

> Only implement this method if the flag `SUPPORT_CLOSE` is set.  For valves that
> report position, this method can be left unimplemented and only `set_valve_position` is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only implement this method if the flag `SUPPORT_CLOSE` is set.  For valves that
can set position, this method should be left unimplemented and only `set_valve_position` is required.
```

```python
class MyValve(ValveEntity):
    # Implement one of these methods.

    def close_valve(self) -> None:
        """Close valve."""

    async def async_close_valve(self) -> None:
        """Close valve."""
```

### Set valve position

> Only implement this method if the flag `SUPPORT_SET_POSITION` is set. This method must be implemented in valves that report position.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only implement this method if the flag `SUPPORT_SET_POSITION` is set. This method must be implemented in valves that can set position.
```

sidebar_label: Valve
---

A valve entity controls valve devices such as the water or gas valves in your home. Derive a platform entity from [`homeassistant.components.valve.ValveEntity`](https://github.com/home-assistant/core/blob/dev/homeassistant/components/valve/__init__.py).

## Properties

:::tip
Properties should always only return information from memory and not do I/O (like network requests). Implement `update()` or `async_update()` to fetch data.
:::

| Name | Type | Default | Description
| ----------------------- | ---- | ------- | -----------
| current_valve_position | <code>int &#124; None</code> | `None` | The current position of the valve where 0 means closed and 100 is fully open. This attribute is required on valves with `reports_position = True`, where it's used to determine state.
| is_closed | <code>bool &#124; None</code> | `None` | If the valve is closed or not. Used to determine `state` for valves that don't report position.
| is_closing | <code>bool &#124; None</code> | `None` | If the valve is closing or not. Used to determine `state`.
| is_opening | <code>bool &#124; None</code> | `None` | If the valve is opening or not. Used to determine `state`.

> | reports_position | <code>bool &#124; None</code> | **Required** | If the valve knows its position or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| reports_position | <code>bool</code> | **Required** | If the valve knows its position or not.
```

| Name | Type | Default | Description
| ----------------------- | ---- | ------- | -----------

> | current_valve_position | <code>int &#124; None</code> | `None` | The current position of the valve where 0 means closed and 100 is fully open. If no `is_closed` property is defined, its value will be calculated from this attribute. A valve will be closed if its position is 0.

Reviewer: This will need to be updated once we're finished with the entity design.

| is_closed | <code>bool &#124; None</code> | `None` | If the valve is closed or not. Used to determine `state` for valves that don't report position.
| is_closing | <code>bool &#124; None</code> | `None` | If the valve is closing or not. Used to determine `state`.
| is_opening | <code>bool &#124; None</code> | `None` | If the valve is opening or not. Used to determine `state`.

> | is_opening | <code>bool &#124; None</code> | `False` | If the valve knows its position or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| reports_position | <code>bool &#124; None</code> | `False` | If the valve knows its position or not.
```

| is_closed | <code>bool &#124; None</code> | `None` | If the valve is closed or not. Used to determine `state` for valves that don't report position.
| is_closing | <code>bool &#124; None</code> | `None` | If the valve is closing or not. Used to determine `state`.
| is_opening | <code>bool &#124; None</code> | `None` | If the valve is opening or not. Used to determine `state`.

> | reports_position | <code>bool &#124; None</code> | `False` | If the valve knows its position or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| reports_position | <code>bool &#124; None</code> | **Required** | If the valve knows its position or not.
```
